==== Lament of Leluka ====


In the beginning, there was nothing. And in the nothing, Aska fell. She fell alone, tumbling down and down through the empty blackness. Aska called out into the air, but nothing called back. Over time, Aska grew lonely. So, from her mind she created animals. Great big animals, teeny tiny animals, and all sizes in between. The animals too fell through the empty space. There was no food to eat so they grew hungry, and there was nothing to warm them, so they grew cold. One by one the animals died, until only Aska was left. Aska began to cry, for her children had died. She cried and cried, tears streamed down her face until she cried herself to sleep. In her sleep, the tears streamed from her face and fell far below. While she slept her tears filled the oceans below. But Aska could not see it yet. 

She dreamed, and in her dream she dreamed of a bright light that would warm the world below. While she dreamed Aska fell through the skies until she fell into the ocean below. 

Upon feeling the cold splash of the water, Aska awoke from her dreams. Afloat in a vast ocean, Aska swam through the waves. She remembered her dreams and she remembered her lost children. Aska looked into the water, and she could not find any food that would feed her. She looked to the skies, there was no light that would warm her. So she reached down to the bottom of the ocean and pulled on the floor. She pulled and tugged, and tugged and pulled. And finally she pulled the earth from the sea. 

Aska looked up at the sky. Above her was only blackness. Aska picked up a great boulder, and threw it into the heavens. The boulder hit the darkness that lined the sky, but instead of tearing a hole, the boulder got stuck halfway through. So, Aska picked up another rock and hurled it at the boulder. The rock struck the boulder and pushed it through the sky. Light streamed through the hole, and shone down upon the earth as the Sun.  upon hitting the boulder, the smaller rock shattered into countless smaller pieces that pierced the sky, forming the stars. 

Upon the earth, Aska began to sing. As she sang the plants began to rise from the ground. Towering trees, creeping mosses, and all the plants in between. After the plants had grown, Aska stopped singing. She looked out across the green earth, and smiled. She remembered her lost children, and shed a single tear. As the tear slowly ran down her cheek, she created the animals again. 

From the earth they sprang, great big animals, teeny tiny animals, and all the sizes in between. Aska was happy. Aska watched her world. She watched as the animals wandered the plains. She watched as they explored the forests. She watched as they climbed the mountains. She watched as they swam in the oceans. As she watched her smile slowly faded. Though she was happy with her new children, she was sad that none of them could create the way she could. From the clay beneath the trees, Aska formed a new animal. He was not small, nor was he big. He stood on two legs and had two arms with hands that could hold. On his body there was no fur, but the sun kept him warm. Aska took her flame from her chest and cupped a small piece of it in her hands. In his heart, Aska placed this spark. Finally, Aska breathed life into this new creature. This new creature looked up to Aska and asked who he was. Aska spoke to him, “You are Sebestan. You have been created with a divine spark to create in this world of yours.”Sebestan nodded. He set out into the world. From the forests he took trees and made a bow. From the plains he took seeds and made food. From the mountains he took stones and made a hammer. From the ocean he took shells and made a cup. Sebestan walked across the plains and met a herd of animals. They were large, and covered in dark brown fur. On their heads was a pair of ragged horns. He looked upon the herd and declared them to be Ragged Horn Reindeer. Aska called down to Sebestan, “I have named the creatures of the world. You do not need to give them names of your own. These animals are called the Atnar.” But Sebestan did not like this new name, so he refused to learn it. Sebestan took his bow and slew  a large Ragged Horn from the edge of the herd. Sebestan skinned the large animal and created a Chuval with its hide. He sat inside by himself. Sebestan grew lonely. He called out to Aska to save him from his loneliness. Aska looked upon him with compassion. From the clay beneath the trees Aska created another creature. She was slightly smaller than Sebestan, Her face was smooth and hairless, and her bosom was swollen. Sebestan was overjoyed, and asked what to call her. Aska spoke, “Her name shall be Leluka. She is your wife and equal. She will grant you the family you desire.” Content, Sebestan set about showing Leluka the world and all that is in it. 

One day Sebestan set out to collect some food from the forest. He walked deep into the forest, where the trees block out the sun, and evil things live. That night, Sebestan did not return to Leluka.  In the morning, Leluka went to search for Sebestan. She called out his name but he did not answer. So she cried and cried. 

The second day that Sebestan did not return, Leluka called out to the Vrakkan Seals to find her husband. The seals dove beneath the waves and scoured the beaches, but they could not find Sebestan. Leluka cried and cried. 

The third day, Leluka called to the Ragged Horn Reindeer to find her husband. They ran across the plains and combed the grass, but they could not find Sebestan. Leluka cried and cried. 

On the fourth day, Leluka called to the Solvya Rabbits to find her husband. The rabbits searched through their tunnels, and across the high hills, but they could not find Sebestan. Leluka cried and cried. 

On the fifth day, Leluka called to the Angra Wolverines to find her husband. The wolverines climb the mountains, and scoured the peaks, but they could not find Sebestan.

On the sixth day, Leluka called to the Volki Wolves to find her husband. The wolves ran through the forest and climbed the mountains, but they could not find Sebestan. Unwilling to give up as the animals had done, the Volki asked the trees for their wisdom. The trees had seen Sebestan venture deep into the woods, where the trees block out the sun, and evil things live. So the wolves search in that dark place. Inside they found the Medved Bears and they found what remained of Sebestan. Saddened, they return to Leluka to bear the news. 

When they returned to the Chuval, Leluka rushed to meet them. The wolves told her of Sebestan’s fate, and Leluka stood frozen in shock as tears began to run down her face. She yelled out to Aska, for all she had had had been taken from her. Aska looked down from above, “My child Leluka, Sebestan has passed on from this world. His divine spark has returned to me. Do not worry, inside your womb you carry two children. They will bring you the happiness you desire.” Leluka was content, but she did not know what would happen while she waited for her children. Aska continued, “I have instructed the Volki to protect you from the Medved, and to bring you what you and your children will need. And so, Leluka ceased to worry. As the months passed by, the Volki brought her Solvya rabbits to skin and use and clothing. They brought her Ragged Horn herds to milk and butcher for meat and skins for the Chuval. With the skins of the animals Leluka warmed her Chuval. Within the Chuval, she constructed two Rhuvals, one for each child. Within each Rhuval was a bed and blanket for the two future children. 

After nine months, Leluka gave birth to two children. The first sprung forth a girl, and was named Galiana. The second sprang forth a boy, and was named Aleksander. With the birth of the twins, the wolves spread across the land sharing the good news with every animal they would meet. Within days, the animals came to give their blessings to Leluka. The Vrakken Seals came and blessed the children with patience. The Solvya rabbits came and blessed the children with speed. The Ragged-Horn Reindeer came and blessed the children with strength. The Angra Wolverines came and blessed the children with ferocity. The Volki wolves were already present, and blessed the children with cunning. But when the Medved Bears came, they were driven off, as they were not welcome in the Chuval.

As the children grew they watched and learned from their Volki and from their mother. Once the children could speak, they asked Leluka what the name of the world was, but Leluka did not know. So she told her children the world was named after their father. And so Serberistan got its name.

When the children grew older, they began to long for a partner as Sebestan once had. They too called to Aska for a partner. Aska took pity on them because she knew the pain of loneliness, and she created two more humans. A husband was created from the same clay beneath the trees and the divine spark that filled the hearts of the humans. He was named Anatolli and married to Galiana. A wife was created just as Anatolli was. She was named Natalia and married to Aleksander. 

Leluka’s children were happy, and they both left their mother to start a family as she had. Her Chuval empty, Leluka gathered her wolves and traveled north. In her absence, Leluka gifted her Chuval to the Solvya Rabbits to stay warm as the wind blows across the hills. 

Galiana returned to the Chuval to petition her mother for advice, but she was not there. Galiana grew worried, but the Solvya spoke to her. “Your mother has gone to learn the ways of the world. Do not worry, she is safe.” Galiana’s worries vanished, and she returned to her family.

Aleksander returned to the Chuval to petition his mother for advice, but she was not there. Alkesander grew worried, but the Solvya spoke to him. “Your mother has gone to learn the ways of the world. Do not worry, she is safe.” Aleksander’s worries vanished and he returned to his family.

Leluka traveled to the north coast. She sought the Vrakken Seals to learn the ways of their world. She learned the flow of the ice. She learned how to catch fish. She learned how to stay warm underneath the ice. She learned how to drink from the sea. She learned the way of the tides. After she had learned all she could from the Vrakken, Leluka thanked them and left. 

Leluka traveled to the vast Derina Plains. She sought the Ragged-Horn Reindeer to learn the ways of their world. She learned to navigate the vast openness. She learned to huddle close as the wind and snow whips across the plains. She learned to navigate the snowstorms. She learned how to avoid the Medved traps. After she learned all she could from the Ragged-Horn she thanked them and left. 

Leluka traveled to the towering peaks of the Tundaren Mountains. She sought the Angra Wolverines to learn the ways of their world. She learned to climb the ice cliffs. She learned how to find food underneath the snow. She learned how to find the cracks in the mountain glaciers and how to avoid them. She learned how to stay warm under the snow. After she learned all she could from the Angra, she thanked them and left.

Leluka traveled to the Karatekan Hills. She sought the Solvya Rabbits to learn the ways of their world. She learned how to navigate the tunnels. She learned how to store food for the winter. She learned how to stay warm as the rain thundered across the hills. She learned how to use fur to line her home and stay warm. After she learned all she could form the Solvya, she thanked them and left.

Leluka traveled to the Dark Aliana Forest. She sought the wild Volki Wolves to learn the ways of their world. She learned how to hunt. She learned how to wander. She learned how to sing. She learned how to keep her family close. She learned how to run across the snow. After she learned all she could from the wild Volki, she thanked them and left. 

Leluka returned to the Chuval she left in the Karataken hills. When she arrived there was nothing. The Chuval was gone. Leluka asked her Volki, “How long was I gone?”

The Volki told her, “My dear Leluka, you were gone, learning the ways of the forest, for 700 years.”

Leluka was shocked, and she asked her Volki, “Where have my children gone in my absence?”

The Volki told her, “Your children have gone north. They created a city in the Derina Valley. There they lie. They cheat. They steal. They hate. They indulge and waste. They know no family. They do not know love.”

Leluka grew worried and asked the Volki, “Take me to my grandchildren. I will show them what I learned. I will teach them the ways of the world. 

And so Leluka traveled to the city of Neymoor. There she saw a desolate home. The people sprawled across the streets. They lived in hedonism. Men fathered many children with many women. Women bore children from many men. They cast their children out once they could walk, left to live or die by the hands of the other children. In the houses the adults grew gluttonous, while their children worked on the farms. They harvested unwieldy amounts of food from the soil, only to watch the adults take it from them, leaving them only the scraps to sustain themselves. Leluka watched as the tears of the children watered the soil, and as they collapsed, not to rise again, they were buried to feed the plants they worked to grow. 

Leluka collapsed as grief wracked her body. Tears flowed from her eyes forming the great Baan Lake. Leluka called out to Aska, tears still in her eyes, “Great creator, your children have abandoned each other. I cannot live to see them this way. What should I do?”

Aska spoke to Leluka, “Choose your family from among the children with the purest hearts. Guide them and keep them warm. A storm is coming, one that will blanket the world in snow until all those who cannot warm their hearts with the love of their family have frozen. I cast them away, their frozen hearts will never join me.”

Leluka wiped the tears from her eyes and set off towards the city. She looked above and saw the clouds starting to form in the clear sky. In the fields she found six very young boys, yet to be corrupted by the city, and she found six young girls, yet to be corrupted by the city. She led them out from the fields to her Chuval on the plains. As the clouds covered the sky, she built 12 Rhuvals within, one for each child. The Volki brought Leluka firewood, and they herded the Ragged-Horn around the Chuval to shelter the new family from the wind and snow. As the snow fell, the children began to shiver, but Leluka built a fire to warm them, and showed them the love they had lost in Neymoor. The children learned of this love and it began to warm them. 

Across Serberistan the snow fell. In the north the Vrakken huddled together on the ice to stay warm. On the slopes of the Tundaren Mountains, the Angra clawed into their dens together and warmed each other. On the plains, the Ragged-Horn packed themselves tightly together, and weathered the storm. Under the Karataken Hills, the Solvya snuggled in their burrows, and slept through the storm. In the Aliana Forest, the wild Volki dug dens beneath the snow banks and slept together through the storm. Even the Medved, who live deep in the forest, where the trees block out the sun, and evil things live, they stayed warm in their holes, families kept close. As the snow grew deeper and the wind colder, Leluka’s new family stayed warm, their newfound love warming their hearts. 

As the snow melted, the city of Neymoor was in ruins, their houses collapsed, their farms barren. The new Children of Leluka learned the ways of the world. They learned the ways of the Chuval, and the ways of the nomads. As the children grew, Leluka taught them the importance of a family. Once they were old enough, the children set out on the world, as six families. Spreading across the world, the first of the Sanir. 

As the Children of Leluka spread across Serberistan, Leluka took her Volki and went deep into the Alina Forest. There she would remain, until the last Sansuvut perished.  
